[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and sally nugent
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning more clashes between police and
protesters in bristol for the second
time in three days we'll hear from one
officer on the front line of the
weekend's protests
certainly sunday was on another level
from from our point of view i've not
seen
levels of violence that bad new rules
for asylum seekers are set out by the
home secretary priti patel says they are
firm
but fair critics call them divisive and
inhumane
meet the new boy as prince harry reveals
his new job at a silicon valley startup
we'll hear from his boss
the scams the fraud and the heartbreak
they bring good morning an estimated
35 million pounds has been taken in the
last year as kobit
offers fertile ground to fraudsters i'll
look at how you
can protect yourself good morning from
inspiring a generation to going for gold
this summer
in an exclusive interview katarina
johnson-thompson tells breakfast the
pandemic
won't slow her down
good morning the next few days we're
looking at a mixture of sunshine and
showers
some of those will be heavy it'll be
windy at times but on friday it's going
to turn
colder with some snow mostly on the
hills that won't last
milder by the weekend i have all the
details later in the programme
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday the 24th of
march 14 people have been arrested
following a second night of protests in
bristol the crowds had gathered to
demonstrate against the government's new
policing bill
andrew plant has more for the second
time in three days
riot police in the centre of bristol
moving in to disperse protesters
who had gathered near the center of the
city it was a peaceful protest but
scuffles broke out
as officers moved in avon and somerset
police said current lockdown rules
meant they had to disperse the group
it's now after midnight here and we've
been in this situation
here in bristol for more than an hour
and a half now you can see
maybe up to 100 protesters sitting and
standing there and this
line of riot police they haven't moved
for quite a long time and the reason
they're standing here is it prevents the
protesters
going back from here to where they
started in the city centre
it comes after these violent scenes on
sunday 21 officers were injured when
demonstrators gathered for the kill
the bill protest against the proposed
new police and crime bill
mounted police officer hannah clark was
working on sunday night
with a horse mendip certainly sunday was
on another level from
from our point of view i've not seen
levels of violence
that bad in my career and i think
probably people that have been working
in the job for a lot longer than me
would agree with that
certainly on route you could hear what
was going on you could hear
the noise on the radio and the emergency
buttons going off and colleagues asking
for help so
it was quite distressing just stressing
listening as you're on your way you just
wanted to get there to kind of help
really the
aggression towards the police was
astonishing really
a lot of the windows had been damaged
there were vehicles on fire
there were hundreds of people on top of
the ncb car parks
throwing items varying from street
furniture glass bottles
i think even a microwave got thrown down
at one point so it was
it was uh certainly aggressive
how the police handle protests has been
in the headlines since criticism
of the metropolitan police's handling of
a vigil for sarah everard
with protests legally allowed once again
in england from monday
ministers will be thinking hard about
how protests can be policed
during a global pandemic andrew plant
bbc news
in bristol the home secretary has
announced changes to the immigration
system describing them
as firm but fair the new plans mean it
will be harder for anyone arriving in
the uk
illegally to stay our home affairs
correspondent june kelly has more detail
this is what the government is trying to
stop migrants who've paid thousands of
pounds to traffickers
for the final perilous leg of their
journey to the uk
last year eight and a half thousand
people arrived here
by crossing the channel in small boats
the majority of them are said to have
claimed asylum
the home secretary believes those who
come here in this way are rewarded
while others she describes as some of
the most vulnerable
never make it to britain under what's
called the new plan for immigration
the home secretary says that if people
arrive illegally
it will be harder for them to stay those
that are allowed to stay
will have fewer family reunion rights
and limited access to benefits
and they will be regularly reassessed
for removal
from the uk she is
closing off pretty much every door that
people might use
in order to flee persecution and rebuild
their life safely
it's not what the refugee convention
really requires it's not what the
british public would
i think see as a fair system
the 10th anniversary of the start of the
syrian conflict
has refocused attention on the
conditions people there
are enduring and trying to escape
the uk government says under a
resettlement programme
it's given a home to twenty thousand
people from this region
in future anyone from syria who tries to
come here using the channel route
will not be made welcome june kelly bbc
news
and we'll discuss that and a number of
other issues this morning with the home
secretary pretty patel who's going to be
live on breakfast at 7
30. now the third wave of coronavirus
sweeping across europe means it's still
too early to be planning holidays abroad
the prime minister and his chief
medical advisor have warned the advice
came as the uk marked the anniversary of
the first lockdown with lights and
candles for the 126 thousand lives lost
so far
john donason has more
from belfast to blackpool
folk to cardiff
from countless homes around the uk to
perhaps its most famous one
the united kingdom lit up to remember
the more than 126 thousand people
who've lost their lives here to covid19
and a warning from the government's
chief medical advisor for england
that while uk cases have fallen sharply
the virus is here to stay i regret to
say
that i think the chances of eradicating
this disease which means getting rid of
it absolutely everywhere
are as close to zero as makes no
difference we've only achieved
eradication of one disease which is
smallpox
with a phenomenally effective vaccine
over a very
a very long period of time but i think
if you talk to anybody who looks at this
really seriously who understands how
infectious diseases work
i don't think there's anybody who thinks
eliminating from the uk or eradicating
globally
for any long period of time is a
realistic
prospect at this point in time and while
more than 28 million people in the uk
have now received a first
vaccine dose progress is much slower in
most
european countries many of which are now
suffering a third wave of the virus
that's why people hoping for a
long-awaited foreign holiday might be
disappointed
most overseas travel is banned until at
least mid-may
the government now says it will make an
announcement on trips abroad from
england
on april the 5th a week earlier than
expected
but the prime minister says summer
holidays this year
still look difficult john donason bbc
news
the prime minister has held a private
meeting of conservative mps that the uk
got its covered vaccinations underway so
quickly
thanks to capitalism and greed boris
johnson made the remark during a video
call with back bench mps but immediately
withdrew the comment
and praised the work of the large
pharmaceutical firms downing street has
declined
to comment a person has died in the
floods that have hit eastern australia
officials have confirmed the fatality
but haven't yet released any further
details
local reports suggest a man's body was
pulled from a car in the town of glenary
near some of the worst affected areas
prince harry has begun a new job at a
professional coaching firm in california
his job title is chief impact officer at
a firm called better up where he says
he'll be fostering
honest and vulnerable conversations
about mental health
mark labelle has the story months into
the role
prince harry is said to be focusing on
changing the global
dialogue on mental health so what does
his new boss think of him
i had obviously never talked to royalty
before in my life
and i think the most impressive thing
has just been his his focus singularly
on how can he be of service how can he
advance his vision so i have a feeling
that he'll work out what do you call him
um he you know we're we're partners here
he likes to be called harry in the
workplace so we just addressed him as
harry
but one skeptic describes betterup's new
chief
impact officer as a made-up name solely
designed
to bring pr sizzle to the san francisco
tech startup
this is a company that does coaching for
managers
mainly right and it does it's mainly
business coaching and career coaching
uh and i don't really think that british
royalty is
particularly well suited for that to be
honest i don't think those experiences
translate very well
[Music]
so how will harry's new firm go about
judging the sixth in line to the
throne's progress
yes well lots can be said on the uh as
we call in the us the
modern performance review um we have a
really open relationship
and constant feedback and communication
so i think we won't have any trouble
there
the private company is however keeping
his hours
and pay perhaps understandably strictly
confidential mark lobel bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news